For that, back in our project here, it's in the product item, the product_item.dart file and there in
the product item widget where we have that add to cart button,
right, here it is.
Now my idea is simple, obviously we'll still add the item to the cart,
that's not really the thing but thereafter I want to show a little info popup that confirms to the
user that we did add this item.
Now showing such an info popup is really simple,
we'll use something which we haven't used before, at least not in that way,
we'll use scaffold
and of course we worked with scaffold before, scaffold is a widget we used before to create that general
page layout with an appBar and so on.
Now we'll not use it as a widget but we'll use the same class here
but then access a static method that exists on scaffold and that's the of method
and of course, we already have some experience with that of method.
We used it on a couple of different classes, like media query, theme but also the provider and the idea
always is the same, of always takes a context and then it establishes some kind of connection behind
the scenes.
The media query establishes a connection to some globally managed object with information about the
device and the device size,
the theme allows us to establish a connection to the globally managed theme for this app and provider
of allowed us to establish connection to
one of our provided classes or objects. With scaffold of context, we establish a connection to the
nearest scaffold, to the nearest scaffold widget,
so to the nearest app layout you could say. Now here I'm using scaffold in the product item and we're not
using scaffold in here which is good,
it wouldn't work if you try to access this in the same widget tree as you used scaffold but instead,
the nearest scaffold is in the product overview.
Here we have a scaffold widget,
we're using the product item in the end as a child here because it's in the products grid and
there in the products grid, we have our product item.
So the nearest scaffold widget when we reach out to it from our product item is the scaffold in the
product overview.
Now why do we reach out to that scaffold widget here in the end?
Because on that scaffold widget which controls the entire page, that's something you have to remember,
you can do a couple of things and for example, you could open the side drawer here if you wanted to
and let me just quickly demonstrate this
if I save that and now I press this cart, now the drawer when we add something to the cart,
obviously that's not what we want but it's also nice to know that you could do that programmatically.
Of course this only works if the nearest scaffold you're reaching out to has a drawer, which this one here
has though.
So that's one thing but of course the thing I want to do here is something different,
we can also call show snack bar and a snack bar is really just a material design object which is shown
at the bottom of the screen,
it's an info modal, an info popup which comes in from the bottom of the screen.
Now show snack bar takes a snack bar widget, as you can see here, it takes a snack bar widget as an
argument,
so let's add a new snack bar here. Snack bar is a widget which is made available by material.dart from
the Flutter package and snack bar
now takes a couple of arguments to be configured,
there is one required argument and that's the content.
So let's provide the named content argument and content takes a widget then which is displayed in the
snack bar
and typically, that's a text widget.
So here we could say added item to cart, that would be a simple snack bar
and with that if we save this, now if we add an item to the cart, you see that information coming from the
bottom here.
Now important, this automatically gets dismissed after a short time,
you can also configure that duration by setting duration here. Duration expects a duration object, duration
then in turn is built into Dart,
it's a class built into Dart and it allows you to define a duration with a couple of named arguments,
for example
here we could say the duration should be two seconds
and now the snack bar will be shown for two seconds.
If you would want to have the text in the middle by the way, you could also set text align here to
textAlign.center.
And with these changes, now if we add an item, we have the center text and after two seconds, this disappears.
Now I'll get rid of text align center though because I'll add more to the snack bar than just the text.
Besides the content, you can also add an action here and that action should be a snack bar action widget
which is also part of my material.dart from the Flutter package and a snack bar action that in turn
needs a label and onPressed,
so these are the two required parameters.
The label is simply the text on this snack bar action
and this is now just text, not a widget but just plain text and here for example, we could offer the user
the option to undo this addition to the cart and then we also need to provide onPressed where we do
something when the user chooses that action. Now before we add the logic for that,
let's see this,
if we press this, now we see the undo button here and if we press that, the snack bar gets dismissed
and of course you then want to do something that makes sense for the text you're showing here.
So in our case, we could undo the addition of that item to the cart
and for that, let's simply go to the cart.dart file and add a new function here, remove a single item because
I don't want to remove the entire item from the cart,
so not the entire product from the cart but only the latest addition, only a single quantity so to say.
For this, we can check whether this is actually part of the cart, so if item contains a key and I expect
to get the product ID as a key here.
So first of all let's check whether that product ID is part and if it's not part of the cart,
so hence the exclamation mark here,
then I just return here and I don't do anything, return cancels the function execution, so the code after
return doesn't execute and thereafter, I want to check if items for that given product ID,
so for that key, if the quantity for that value is greater than 1. We know that we have an entry for
this product
but I check whether that quantity is greater than 1 because if it's greater than 1, I just want to reduce
the quantity, if it's equal to 1,
I want to remove the entire entry from the map,
that's the important difference here.
So if the quantity is greater than 1, then I'll simply call update here and for the product ID, we have
this update function with the existing cart item where I then return a new cart item where I keep my existing
cart item ID, my existing cart item title and also the existing cart item price but the quantity
is the existing cart item minus one
and of course, here I want to refer to the existing cart item quantity minus one.
So this would then be the update
if we had a quantity greater one, if and that's of course important, if the quantity is equal to one,
so here in the else case because else always means it has to be equal to 1, 0 is not possible because
we're checking here whether we have no entry and we can't reach a zero quantity otherwise.
So if we have a quantity that's equal to one, then of course we want to remove the entire product.
So here I can then simply use items remove and remove the entire key and therefore also the value mapped
to the key from my map
and after all of this, of course we want to notify our listeners about that update.
So this will now change the cart and will remove a single item
and this is now a method which we can call from insert product item when we press undo. There in
onPressed in the end,
I want to use my cart,
I have my cart available because we're setting up a listener to it or not actively a listener but we
reach out to our cart provider up here,
store the cart in that variable or in that constant and therefore down there, we can of course call remove
single item and forward our product ID which we get from product.id here. Now with that, we can
see that in action,
I have no items in the cart hence my badge shows zero
and if I add an item, this goes up to 1 but if I now click undo, it goes back to zero.
If I add an item twice here and I then press undo, we have one here on the badge still because I added
it twice and that only undid one of the two actions
but if we go there, we see the quantity is only 1 because I undid one of the two actions.
So this is working, a tiny improvement is that if we rapidly add items, we don't really see that we do
that because the snack bars really only wait for the previous snack bar to timeout before the new snack
bar shows up.
Now to immediately remove the old snack bar and show a new one when you want to do that, you can go to
the place where you show your snack bar and before you show it, you again use scaffold of context and
then you call hide current snack bar and if there is a snack bar already, this will be hidden before
the new one is shown. So with that,
now if we add an item here and then we press this again, you see the snack bar gets dismissed immediately
and the new snack bar comes up.
So this is how we can improve the app a lot because we give the user more useful information and also
an option to undo what the user did with the help of our snack bar here.